FRENCH
SHORT STORIES
For Beginners
BOOK 1
OVER 100 DIALOGUES AND DAILY USED PHRASES TO LEARN FRENCH
IN YOUR CAR. HAVE FUN & GROW YOUR VOCABULARY, WITH
CRAZYEFFECTIVE LANGUAGE LEARNING LESSONS.
LEARN LIKE A NATIVE
French Short Stories for Beginners
Book 1
Over 100 Dialogues and Daily Used Phrases to Learn French in
Your Car. Have Fun & Grow Your Vocabulary, with Crazy
Effective Language Learning Lessons
© Copyright 2020 By Learn Like A Native
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a
retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any
means, without the prior written permission of the
publisher.
TABLE OF CONTENT
INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER 1 The Mysterious Package / Greetings
Translation of the Story
CHAPTER 2 Mardi Gras / Colors + Days of the
Week
Translation of the Story
CHAPTER 3 Weird Weather / Weather
Translation of the Story
CONCLUSION
INTRODUCTION
WE ARE LIVE ON
KICKSTARTER
Help us creating a new collections of 15 Short Stories to
learn the language of your dreams!
AVAILABLE ON
KICKSTARTER
CLICK HERE TO VISIT OUR
KICKSTARTER
LEARN LANGUAGES
with Multilingual Short Stories
Hola
Ciao
Spanish French •Italian German Portuguese
Bonjour
Before we dive into some French, I want to congratulate you, whether
you’re just beginning, continuing, or resuming your language learning
journey. Here at Learn Like a Native, we understand the determination it
takes to pick up a new language and after reading this book, you’ll be
another step closer to achieving your language goals. As a thank you for
learning with us, we are giving you free access to our ‘Speak Like a Native’
eBook. It’s packed full of practical advice and insider tips on how to make
language learning quick, easy, and most importantly, enjoyable. Head over
to LearnLikeNatives.com to access your free guide and peruse our huge
selection of language learning resources.
Learning a new language is a bit like cooking—you need several different
ingredients and the right technique, but the end result is sure to be
delicious.  We created this book of short stories for learning French because
language is alive. Language is about the senses—hearing, tasting the words
on your tongue, and touching another culture up close.  Learning a language
in a classroom is a fine place to start, but it’s not a complete introduction to
a language.
In this book, you’ll find a language come to life.  These short stories are
miniature immersions into the French language, at a level that is perfect for
beginners. This book is not a lecture on grammar. It’s not an endless
vocabulary list.  This book is the closest you can come to a language
immersion without leaving the country.  In the stories within, you will see
people speaking to each other, going through daily life situations, and using
the most common, helpful words and phrases in language.  You are holding
the key to bringing your French studies to life.
Made for Beginners
We made this book with beginners in mind. You’ll find that the language is
simple, but not boring. Most of the book is in the present tense, so you will
be able to focus on dialogues, root verbs, and understand and find patterns
in subject-verb agreement.
This is not “just” a translated book. While reading novels and short stories
translated into French is a wonderful thing, beginners (and even novices)
often run into difficulty. Literary licenses and complex sentence structure
can make reading in your second language truly difficult—not to mention
BORING.  That’s why French Short Stories for Beginners is the perfect
book to pick up.  The stories are simple, but not infantile. They were not
written for children, but the language is simple so that beginners can pick it
up. 
The Benefits of Learning a Second Language
If you have picked up this book, it’s likely that you are already aware of the
many benefits of learning a second language.  Besides just being fun,
knowing more than one language opens up a whole new world to you.  You
will be able to communicate with a much larger chunk of the world.
Opportunities in the workforce will open up, and maybe even your day-today work will be improved.  Improved communication can also help you
expand your business. And from a neurological perspective, learning a
second language is like taking your daily vitamins and eating well, for your
brain!
How To Use The Book
The chapters of this book all follow the same structure:
A short story with several dialogs
A summary in French
A list of important words and phrases and their English translation
Question s to test your understanding
Answers to check if you were right
The English translation of the story to clear every doubt
You may use this book however is comfortable for you, but we have a few
recommendations for getting the most out of the experience. Try these tips
and if they work for you, you can use them on every chapter throughout the
book.
1) Start by reading the story all the way through. Don’t stop or get hung
up on any particular words or phrases. See how much of the plot you
can understand in this way. We think you’ll get a lot more of it than
you may expect, but it is completely normal not to understand
everything in the story. You are learning a new language, and that
takes time.
2) Read the summary in French. See if it matches what you have
understood of the plot.
3) Read the story through again, slower this time. See if you can pick
up the meaning of any words or phrases you don’t understand by
using context clues and the information from the summary.
4) Test yourself! Try to answer the five comprehension question s that
come at the end of each story.  Write your answers down, and then
check them against the answer key.  How did you do? If you didn’t
get them all, no worries!
5) Look over the vocabulary list that accompanies the chapter. Are any
of these the words you did not understand? Did you already know the
meaning of some of them from your reading?
6) Now go through the story once more. Pay attention this time to the
words and phrases you haven’t understand. If you’d like, take the
time to look them up to expand your meaning of the story. Every time
you read over the story, you’ll understand more and more.
7) Move on to the next chapter when you are ready.
Read and Listen
The audio version is the best way to experience this book, as you will hear a
native French speaker tell you each story. You will become accustomed to
their accent as you listen along, a huge plus for when you want to apply
your new language skills in the real world.
If this has ignited your language learning passion and you are keen to find
out what other resources are available, go to LearnLikeNatives.com ,
where you can access our vast range of free learning materials. Don’t know
where to begin? An excellent place to start is our ‘Speak Like a Native’ free
eBook, full of practical advice and insider tips on how to make language
learning quick, easy, and most importantly, enjoyable.
And remember, small steps add up to great advancements! No moment is
better to begin learning than the present.
FREE BOOK!
Get the FREE BOOK that reveals the secrets
path to learn any language fast, and without
leaving your country.
Discover :
The language 5 golden rules to master
languages at will
Proven mind training techniques to
revolutionize your learning
A complete step-by-step guide to conquering
any language
CHAPTER 1
The Mysterious Package / Greetings
La sonnette sonne.
Andrew court vers la porte de l’appartement. Personne ne sonne jamais le
samedi matin. Andrew a hâte de voir qui est à la porte. Il ouvre la porte.
«  Bonjour , petit garçon, dit un livreur. » L’homme est vêtu d’un uniforme
brun et porte une boîte marron.
«  Bonjour, monsieur  », dit Andrew.
« J’ai un colis », dit le livreur. « Il est écrit 10, Grande Rue. »
« Nous sommes au 10, Grande Rue », dit Andrew.
«  Le colis n’a pas de nom, dit le livreur. Il n’a pas non plus de numéro
d’appartement. »
« Comme c’est étrange », dit Andrew.
«Pouvez-vous le donner à la bonne personne?», demande l’homme.
«  Je peux essayer  », dit Andrew. Il n’a que dix ans, mais il se sent
important.
«  Merci beaucoup », dit le livreur. Il part. Andrew ramène la boite chez
lui. Il la fixe. Elle a à peu près la taille d’une boîte à chaussures. Il n’y a pas
de nom de destinataire, seulement 10, Grande Rue.
Andrew ouvre la boîte en carton. Il a besoin de savoir ce qu’il y a à
l’intérieur pour trouver le propriétaire. Il y a une petite boîte en bois à
l’intérieur de la boîte en carton. Andrew ouvre la boîte en bois. À l’intérieur
de la boîte se trouvent 10 paires de lunettes différentes. Elles sont de
couleurs différentes : roses et rouges, à pois verts, noires et blanches. Les
formes aussi sont différentes : rondes, carrées et rectangulaires.
Il ferme la boîte et met ses chaussures.
«  Au revoir maman! Je reviens tout de suite », crie-t-il.
Andrew frappe à la porte en face de chez lui. Elle s’ouvre. Une très vieille
dame sourit à Andrew et à la boîte.
«  Bonjour , Mme Smith. » dit Andrew.
« Comment vas-tu ?» demande la vieille dame.
«  Très bien, merci! Et vous?  », dit Andrew.
«Qu’est-ce que tu as là?» demande la vieille dame.
«  Madame , c’est un paquet. Il appartient à quelqu’un dans cet immeuble,
mais je ne sais pas à qui, dit Andrew.
« Ce n’est pas pour moi », dit la vieille dame. « Impossible! »
« Oh, ok », dit Andrew, déçu. La vieille dame porte des lunettes. Il pense
que ces lunettes lui iraient bien. Il se retourne pour partir.
« Reviens plus tard », lui crie la vieille dame. « Je fais des biscuits et il y en
a pour toi et ta famille. »
Andrew monte les escaliers. Son immeuble compte trois étages. Il est ami
avec presque tout le monde dans l’immeuble.  Cependant, il y a une
nouvelle famille dans l’appartement du deuxième étage. Andrew ne les
connaît pas. Il est intimidé, mais il sonne. Un homme brun ouvre la porte. Il
sourit.
« Salut! » dit l’homme.
« Bonjour, dit Andrew. Je vis en bas. Je m’appelle Andrew. »
«  C’est un plaisir de faire ta connaissance , Andrew  », dit l’homme.
« Nous sommes nouveaux dans l’immeuble. Je suis M. Jones. »
«  Moi aussi, je suis heureux de vous rencontrer », dit Andrew. « Ce
colis appartient à quelqu’un dans cet immeuble. Est-ce votre colis? »
«Impossible!» dit l’homme. «Ma famille et moi venons d’emménager ici.
Personne ne connaît notre adresse.»
« D’accord », dit Andrew. « Ravi de vous rencontrer alors ». La porte se
ferme. Un autre non. Il ne reste que deux appartements à essayer. Dans
l’appartement suivant, il y a une famille. La fille fréquente la même école
qu’Andrew. Elle a un an de plus qu’Andrew. Elle s’appelle Diana. Andrew
la trouve très belle. Il est à nouveau intimidé, mais il frappe à la porte.
Une jolie blonde ouvre la porte.
«  Salut , Diana », sourit Andrew.
«  Quoi de neuf ? » dit Diana. Son pyjama est rose vif et ses cheveux sont
sales.
« Comment ça va ?» demande Andrew.
«  Ça va , dit Diana. Je dormais. Tu m’as réveillée. »
« Je suis désolé », dit-il rapidement. Son visage est rouge. Il est très timide.
« J’ai un paquet. Nous ne savons pas à qui il appartient ».
« Qu’y a-t-il dedans », demande Diana.
« Des lunettes. Ce sont des lunettes pour la lecture », dit Andrew.
« Je ne porte pas de lunettes. Ma mère n’en utilise pas. Le colis n’est pas
pour nous », dit Diana.
« Ok », dit Andrew. Il fait au revoir de la main et monte les escaliers. Il y a
un appartement de plus, l’appartement au troisième étage. M. Edwards vit
seul dans cet appartement. Il a un gros perroquet qui sait parler. Il a aussi
quatre chats et un chien. Son appartement est vieux et sombre. Andrew a
peur de M. Edwards. Il sonne à la porte. Il doit savoir à qui appartient le
colis.
«  Bonjour », dit M. Edwards. Son chien vient à la porte. Le chien aide M.
Edwards parce qu’il est aveugle.
«  Bonjour, M. Edwards, c’est Andrew  », dit Andrew. M. Edwards a les
yeux fermés. Il sourit.
«  Quoi de neuf , Andrew? » demande-t-il. « Humm, pense Andrew, peutêtre que M. Edwards n’est pas effrayant. Peut-être que M. Edwards est juste
un gentil vieil homme qui vit seul ».
« J’ai un paquet et je pense qu’il est pour vous », dit Andrew.
« Ah oui! Mes lunettes de lecture. Enfin!» sourit M. Edwards. Il tend les
mains. Andrew est confus. Il regarde le chien. Il semble sourire aussi. Il
donne le colis à M. Edwards.
«  Je suis content de te voir , dit M. Edwards.
«  Moi aussi  », dit Andrew. Il rendra peut-être visite à M. Edwards un autre
jour. Il se retourne et rentre chez lui.
RÉSUMÉ
Un garçon, Andrew, reçoit un colis qui ne lui est pas destiné. C’est un colis
qui contient des lunettes. Il l’apporte aux voisins, un par un, pour savoir à
qui appartient le colis. Il découvre que le colis appartient à son voisin M.
Edwards, ce qui est un peu surprenant.
Liste de Vocabulaire
Good morning Bonjour
Hello Bonjour
Sir Monsieur
Thank you very much Merci beaucoup
Bye Bye
Morning! Bonjour!
How are you? Comment ça va?
Fine, thanks! Très bien, merci!
And you? Et vous?
Ma’am Madame
Hi! Salut!
My name is… Mon nom est…
It’s nice to meet you. Ravi de vous rencontrer.
Nice to meet you too. Ravi de vous rencontrer également.
How’s it going? Comment ça va?
It’s going. Ça va.
Hey! Salut!
What’s up? Quoi de neuf?
What’s new? Quoi de neuf?
It’s good to see you. Je suis content de te voir.
QUESTIONS
1. Qui est à la porte d’entrée lorsqu’Andrew l’ouvre?
a) un livreur
b) un chat
c) un recenseur
d) son père
2. Comment décririez-vous Mme Smith?
a) une belle fille
b) une méchante personne
c) une mauvaise voisine
d) une vieille femme gentille
3. Qui habite au deuxième étage de l’immeuble?
a) personne
b) une fille de l’école d’Andrew
c) une nouvelle famille
d) Andrew
4. A votre avis, que pense Andrew de Diana?
a) il l’aime bien et il pense qu’elle est jolie
b) il la suit sur les réseaux sociaux
c) il ne l’aime pas
d) ils ne se connaissent pas
5. À qui dans l’immeuble appartiennent les lunettes ?
a) à la vieille femme
b) à l’homme aveugle
c) à Andrew et sa famille
d) à personne
RÉPONSES
1. Qui est à la porte d’entrée lorsqu’Andrew l’ouvre?
a) un livreur
2. Comment décririez-vous Mme Smith?
d) une vieille femme gentille
3. Qui habite au deuxième étage de l’immeuble?
c) une nouvelle famille
4. A votre avis, que pense Andrew de Diana?
a) il l’aime bien et pense qu’elle est jolie
5. À qui dans l’immeuble appartiennent les lunettes ?
b) à l’homme aveugle
Translation of the Story
The Mysterious Package
The doorbell rings.
Andrew runs to the door of the apartment. The doorbell never rings on
Saturday mornings. Andrew is excited to see who is at the door. He opens
the door.
“ Good morning , little boy,” says a delivery man. The man is dressed in a
brown uniform and is carrying a brown box.
“ Hello , sir ,” says Andrew.
“I have a package,” the delivery man says. “It says 10 Main Street.”
“This is 10 Main Street,” says Andrew.
“The package has no name,” says the delivery man. “It also has no
apartment number.”
“How strange!” says Andrew.
“Can you give it to the right person?” the man asks.
“I can try,” says Andrew. He is only ten years old, but he feels important.
“Thank you very much,” says the delivery man. He leaves. Andrew takes
the box into his house.  He stares at the box. It is about the size of a shoe
box. It has no name on the outside, just 10 Main Street.
Andrew opens the cardboard box. He needs to know what is inside to find
the owner.  There is a small wood box inside the cardboard box. Andrew
opens the wooden box. Inside the box are 10 different pairs of eyeglasses.
They are different colors: pink and red, green polka dots, black and white.
They are also different shapes: round, square and rectangle.
He closes the box and puts on his shoes.
“ Bye mom! I’ll be right back,” he shouts.
Andrew knocks on the door across the hall from his house. It opens. A very
old lady smiles at Andrew and the box.
“Morning , Mrs. Smith!” says Andrew.
“How are you?” asks the old lady.
“Fine, thanks! And you?” says Andrew.
“What do you have?” asks the old lady.
“Ma’am, this is a package. It belongs to someone in this building but I
don’t know who,” says Andrew.
“It’s not for me,” says the old lady. “Impossible!”
“Oh, ok” says Andrew, disappointed. The old lady wears glasses. He thinks
these glasses would look nice on her. He turns to leave.
“Come back later,” calls the old lady. “I’m making cookies and some
cookies are for you and your family.”
Andrew goes up the stairs. His building has three floors.  He is friends with
almost everyone in the building.  However, the apartment on the second
floor has a new family. Andrew doesn’t know them. He feels shy, but he
rings the bell. A brown-haired man opens the door. He smiles.
“Hi!” says the man.
“Hello,” says Andrew. “I live downstairs. My name is Andrew.”
“It’s nice to meet you, Andrew,” the man says.  “We are new to the
building. I’m Mr. Jones.”
“ Nice to meet you too,” says Andrew. “This package belongs to someone
in this building. Is it your package?”
“Impossible!” says the man. “My family and I just moved here. No one
knows our address.”
“Ok,” says Andrew.  “Nice to meet you then.” The door closes. Another
no.  There are only two apartments left to try. In the next apartment is a
family. The daughter goes to the same school as Andrew. She is a year older
than Andrew. Her name is Diana. Andrew thinks she is very beautiful. He
feels shy again, but he knocks on the door.
A pretty, blonde girl opens the door.
“Hey, Diana,” Andrew smiles.
“What’s up?” Diana says. Her pijamas are bright pink and her hair is
messy.
“How’s it going?” Andrew asks.
“It’s going,” Diana says. “I was asleep. You woke me up.”
“I’m sorry,” he says quickly. His face is red. He feels extra shy. “I have a
package. We don’t know who it belongs to.”
“What is in it?” asks Diana.
“Some glasses. They are glasses for reading,” says Andrew.
“I don’t wear glasses. My mom doesn’t use them. The box is not for us,”
says Diana.
“Ok,” says Andrew. He waves goodbye and climbs the stairs. There is one
more apartment, the apartment on the third floor. Mr. Edwards lives in this
apartment, alone.  He has a big parrot that knows how to talk. He also has
four cats and a dog. His apartment is old and dark. Andrew feels afraid of
Mr. Edwards. He rings the doorbell. He has to find out who the box belongs
to.
“Hello,” says Mr. Edwards. His dog comes to the door. The dog helps Mr.
Edwards because he is blind.
“Hi, Mr. Edwards. It’s Andrew,” Andrew says. Mr. Edwards has his eyes
closed. He smiles.
“What’s new, Andrew? ” He asks. Hmmm, Andrew thinks, maybe Mr.
Edwards isn’t scary. Maybe Mr. Edwards is just a nice old man that lives
alone.
“I have a package and I think it is for you,” says Andrew.
“Ah yes! My reading glasses. Finally!” smiles Mr. Edwards. He holds his
hands out. Andrew is confused. He looks at the dog. It seems to be smiling,
too. He gives Mr. Edwards the box.
“It’s good to see you,” says Mr. Edwards.
“You too,” says Andrew. Maybe he will visit Mr. Edwards another day. He
turns around and goes home.
CHAPTER 2
Mardi Gras / Colors + Days of the Week
HISTOIRE
Frank sort de chez lui. Sa nouvelle maison est violette avec des fenêtres
bleues . Les couleurs sont très vives pour une maison. À la NouvelleOrléans, où est sa nouvelle maison, les bâtiments sont colorés. 
Il est nouveau dans le quartier. Frank n’a pas encore d’amis. La maison à
côté de chez lui est un grand bâtiment rouge . Une famille y vit.  Frank
regarde la porte, et un homme l’ouvre. Frank dit bonjour.
« Bonjour, voisin! » dit George. Il fait signe de la main. Frank marche en
direction de la maison rouge.
« Bonjour, je suis Frank, le nouveau voisin », dit Frank.
« Ravi de vous rencontrer. Je m’appelle George  », dit-il. Les hommes se
serrent la main. George a une guirlande lumineuse dans les mains. Les
lumières sont vertes , violettes et dorées .
« Cette guirlande lumineuse est pour quoi? » demande Frank.
« Vous êtes nouveau, » rit George. « C’est Mardi Gras, ne le saviez-vous
pas ? Ces couleurs représentent la fête du carnaval ici à la NouvelleOrléans. »
« Oh, oui », dit Frank. Frank ne connaît pas le carnaval. Il n’a pas non plus
d’amis avec qui faire des projets. 
«  Aujourd’hui, c’est vendredi , dit George. Il y a un défilé appelé
Endymion. Viendrez-vous avec moi et ma famille pour le voir? »
« Oui, dit Frank. Génial! »
George mets la guirlande lumineuse sur la maison. Frank aide George.
George allume la lumière. La maison semble festive.
La famille et Frank se rendent au défilé. Pendant Mardi gras à la NouvelleOrléans, il y a des défilés tous les jours. Les défilés pendant la semaine sont
petits. Les défilés du week-end, samedi et dimanche , sont grands, avec
beaucoup de chars et de gens. Il y a un roi du Mardi Gras. Il s’appelle Rex.
Mardi gras signifie «  mardi gras ». En Angleterre, on l’appelle «  Shrove
Tuesday » (« mardi de confession »). C’est une fête catholique. C’est le jour
avant le Mercredi des Cendres, le début du Carême. Mardi Gras est la
célébration qui précède le Carême, un moment sérieux. Arrivé Jeudi, les
jours de fête sont terminés. La Nouvelle-Orléans est célèbre pour son Mardi
Gras. Les gens font des fêtes et portent des masques et des costumes. En
fait, vous ne pouvez porter un masque à la Nouvelle-Orléans que pour
Mardi Gras. Le reste de l’année, c’est illégal !
George et sa famille regardent le défilé qui commence avec Frank. Frank
est surpris. Il y a beaucoup de gens qui regardent. Ils sont debout dans
l’herbe. Les chars passent devant le groupe. Les chars sont de grandes
structures avec des gens et des décorations. Ils descendent la rue, un par un.
Le premier char représente le soleil. Il a des décorations jaunes . Une
femme au milieu porte une robe blanche . Elle ressemble à un ange. Elle
jette des jouets et des perles orange aux gens.
« Pourquoi jette-t-elle les jouets et les colliers? » demande Frank.
« Pour nous! » dit Hannah, la femme de George. Hannah tient cinq colliers
dans ses mains. Il y a des perles sur le sol. Personne ne les attrape. Elles
sont sales et marrons .
Le défilé se poursuit. Il y a beaucoup de chars et de perles. George et sa
famille crient : « Jetez-moi quelque chose, monsieur! » Hannah remplit son
sac noir de jouets colorés et de perles provenant des chars. Frank apprend à
crier « Jetez-moi quelque chose! » pour recevoir des perles pour lui.
Un grand char compte plus de 250 personnes. C’est le plus grand char au
monde.
Enfin, le défilé se termine. Les enfants et les adultes sont heureux. Tout le
monde rentre chez soi. Frank est fatigué. Il a faim aussi et il veut manger.  Il
suit George et sa famille dans la maison rouge . Il y a un gros gâteau rond
sur la table. Il ressemble à un anneau, avec un trou au milieu. Le gâteau est
recouvert d’un glaçage violet , vert et jaune .
« C’est le gâteau du roi », dit Hannah. « Nous mangeons du gâteau du roi
tous les mardis gras. »
Hannah coupe un morceau de gâteau. Elle en donne un à George, un autre
aux enfants et un autre à Frank. Frank goûte le gâteau. Il est délicieux! Il a
un goût de cannelle. Il est moelleux. Mais soudainement Frank mord dans
du plastique.
« Aïe! » dit Frank. Frank arrête de manger. Il sort un bébé en plastique du
gâteau.
«  Il y a une autre tradition, dit George. Le gâteau contient un bébé. La
personne qui reçoit le bébé achète le prochain gâteau. »
« C’est moi ! » dit Frank.
Tout le monde rit. George invite Frank à un autre défilé lundi .
Frank rentre chez lui heureux. Il adore Mardi Gras.
Liste de vocabulaire
violet violet
blue bleu
colors couleurs
red rouge
green vert
purple pourpre
gold or
Friday vendredi
week semaine
Saturday Samedi
Sunday dimanche
Tuesday mardi
Wednesday mercredi
Thursday jeudi
yellow jaune
white blanc
orange orange
brown marron
black noir
Monday lundi
QUESTIONS
1) Comment décririez-vous la nouvelle maison de Frank?
a) ennuyeuse
b) colorée
c) minuscule
d) isolée
2) Quelle couleur représente Mardi Gras à la Nouvelle-Orléans ?
a) bleu
b) blanc
c) orange
d) or
3) Mardi gras est une fête :
a) réservée aux adultes.
b) de la tradition de l’Église juive.
c) célèbre à la Nouvelle-Orléans.
d) que vous célébrez à l’intérieur d’une maison.
4) Laquelle de ces réponses ne se trouve pas sur un char de Mardi Gras ?
a) des gens
b) des ordinateurs
c) des jouets
d) des perles
5) Que se passe-t-il si vous trouvez le bébé dans un gâteau royal?
a) vous pleurez
b) vous devez prendre soin du bébé
c) vous le donnez à votre ami
d) vous devez acheter un gâteau roi
RÉPONSES
1) Comment décririez-vous la nouvelle maison de Frank?
b) colorée
2) Quelle couleur représente Mardi Gras à la Nouvelle-Orléans ?
d) or
3) Mardi gras est une fête :
c) célèbre à la Nouvelle-Orléans.
4) Laquelle de ces réponses ne se trouve pas sur un char de Mardi Gras ?
b) des ordinateurs
5) Que se passe-t-il si vous trouvez le bébé dans un gâteau du roi?
d) vous devez acheter un gâteau roi
Translation of the Story
Mardi Gras
STORY
Frank steps out his front door. His new house is violet with blue windows.
The colors are very bright for a house. In New Orleans, his new home,
buildings are colorful. 
He is new to the neighborhood. Frank does not have any friends yet.  The
house next to him is a tall, red building. A family lives there.  Frank stares
at the door, and a man opens it. Frank says hello.
“Hello, neighbor!” says George. He waves. Frank walks to the red house.
“Hi, I’m Frank, the new neighbor,” says Frank.
“Nice to meet you. My name is George,” George says. The men shake
hands. George has a string of lights in his hands. The lights are green ,
purple and gold .
“What are the lights for?” asks Frank.
“You are new,” laughs George. “It’s Mardi Gras, didn’t you know? These
colors represent the holiday of carnival here in New Orleans.”
“Oh, yes,” says Frank. Frank does not know about carnival. He also has no
friends to make plans with. 
“Today is Friday ,” says George. “There is a parade called Endymion. Will
you come with me and the family to watch?”
“Yes,” Frank says. “Wonderful!”
George puts the lights on the house. Frank helps George. George turns on
the lights. The house looks festive.
The family and Frank go to the parade. During Mardi Gras in New Orleans,
there are parades every day.  The parades during the week are small. The
parades on the weekend, Saturday and Sunday , are big, with many floats
and people. There is a king of Mardi Gras. His name is Rex.
Mardi Gras means ‘Fat Tuesday’. In England, it is called Shrove Tuesday.
The holiday is Catholic. It is one day before Ash Wednesday , the
beginning of Lent. Mardi Gras is the celebration before Lent, a serious time.
By Thursday , the special days are finished. New Orleans is famous for its
Mardi Gras. People have parties and wear masks and costumes. In fact, you
can only wear a mask in New Orleans on Mardi Gras. The rest of the year it
is illegal!
George and his family watch the parade begin with Frank. Frank is
surprised. There are many people watching. They stand in the grass. Floats
pass the group. Floats are big structures with people and decorations. They
go down the street, one by one.
The first float represents the sun. It has yellow decorations. A woman in the
middle wears a white dress. She looks like an angel. She throws orange
toys and beads to the people.
“Why does she throw the toys and necklaces?” asks Frank.
“For us!” says Hannah, George’s wife. Hannah holds five necklaces in her
hands. Some beads are on the ground. Nobody catches them. They are dirty
and brown .
The parade continues. There are many floats, and many beads. George and
his family shout, “Throw me something, mister!” Hannah fills her black
bag with colorful toys and beads from the floats.  Frank learns to shout
“Throw me something!” to get beads for himself.
One big float has over 250 people on it. It is the largest in the world.
Finally, the parade ends. The children and the adults are happy. Everyone
goes home. Frank is tired. He is also hungry and wants to eat.  He follows
George and his family into the red house.  There is a big, round cake on the
table. It looks like a ring, with a hole in the middle. The cake has purple ,
green and yellow frosting on top.
“This is king cake,” Hannah says. “We eat king cake every Mardi Gras.”
Hannah cuts a piece of cake. She gives one piece to George, one piece to
the children, and one piece to Frank.  Frank tastes the cake. It is delicious!
It tastes like cinnamon. It is soft. But suddenly Frank bites into plastic.
“Ouch!” says Frank. Frank stops eating. He pulls a plastic baby out of the
cake.
“There is one more tradition,” says George. “The cake has a baby in it. The
person who gets the baby buys the next cake.”
“That’s me!” Frank says.
Everyone laughs.  George invites Frank to another parade on Monday.
Frank goes home happy. He loves Mardi Gras.
CHAPTER 3
Weird Weather / Weather
HISTOIRE
Ivan est âgé de 12 ans. Il rend visite à ses grands-parents le week-end. Il
adore rendre visite à ses grands-parents. Grand-mère lui donne des biscuits
et du lait tous les jours. Grand-père lui apprend des choses intéressantes. Ce
week-end, il va chez eux.
On est en février. Ivan est là, c’est l’ hiver . En février, il neige
habituellement. Ivan adore la neige. Il joue dans la neige et en fait des
boules. Ce week-end de février, le temps est différent. Le soleil brille, il fait
beau et il fait presque chaud ! Ivan porte un T-shirt chez ses grandsparents.
« Bonjour, grand-père! Bonjour, grand-mère! », dit Ivan.
« Bonjour, Ivan! », dit Grand-mère.
« Ivan! Comment vas-tu? », dit Grand-père.
« Je vais bien », dit-il, et il embrasse ses grands-parents. Ivan dit au revoir à
sa mère. 
Ils entrent dans la maison. «  Ce temps est étrange, dit Grand-mère. En
février, il fait toujours froid et nuageux . Je ne comprends pas! »
« C’est le changement climatique », dit Ivan. À l’école, Ivan étudie la
contamination et la pollution. Le temps change en raison des changements
dans l’ atmosphère . Le changement climatique, c’est la différence de
météo à travers le temps.
« Je ne suis pas au courant des changements climatiques, dit Grand-père. Je
prédis le temps en fonction de ce que je vois. »
« Que veux-tu dire ? », demande Ivan.
«  Ce matin, le ciel est rouge, dit Grand-père. Cela signifie que je sais
qu’une tempête approche. »
« Comment ? » demande Ivan.
« Ciel rouge le matin avertit le marin. Ciel rouge le soir donne espoir.  »
Grand-père explique ce dicton à Ivan.
Si le ciel est rouge au lever du soleil, cela signifie qu’il y a de l’eau dans
l’air. La lumière du soleil brille rouge. La tempête vient vers vous. Si le ciel
est rouge au coucher du soleil, le mauvais temps part. Sans présentateur
météo , les gens regardent le ciel pour chercher des indices sur le temps.
« Comment les météorologues prédisent-ils le temps? » demande Ivan.
«  Ils observent les tendances dans l’atmosphère, dit Grand-mère. Ils
observent la température, si elle est chaude ou froide. Et ils observent la
pression atmosphérique, ce qui se passe dans l’atmosphère. »
« Je prédis les la météo différemment, dit Grand-père. Par exemple, je sais
qu’il va pleuvoir aujourd’hui. »
« Comment ? », demande Ivan.
« Le chat », dit Grand-père. Ivan regarde le chat. Le chat ouvre la bouche et
fait « ah-CHOO ».
« Quand le chat éternue ou ronfle, cela signifie qu’il va pleuvoir, dit Grandpère. Il va peut-être bruiner ou il peut beaucoup pleuvoir , mais il va y
avoir de la pluie. »
Soudain, ils entendent un son fort. Ivan regarde par la fenêtre. Les gouttes
de pluie tombent fort. La pluie est forte. Ivan ne peut pas entendre ce que
son grand-père dit.
« Quoi? », dit Ivan.
« Il pleut des cordes  », dit grand-père en souriant.
« Ah! » rit Ivan.
« Je connais un autre moyen de connaître la météo », dit grand-mère.
Grand-mère regarde les araignées pour voir quand il fera froid. À la fin de l’
été , le temps change. L’ automne apporte de l’air frais et froid. Grandmère sait que lorsque les araignées entrent à l’intérieur, cela signifie que le
froid arrive. Les araignées font une maison à l’intérieur avant l’hiver. C’est
comme ça que grand-mère sait quand le temps hivernal arrive.
La pluie s’arrête. Grand-père et Ivan sortent. Grand-père et Grand-mère
vivent dans une maison dans la forêt. La maison est entourée d’arbres. C’est
une petite maison. Ivan a froid dans son t-shirt. Le temps n’est pas
ensoleillé. L’air se déplace. Il y a du vent. Le vent souffle dans les cheveux
d’Ivan.
« Il fait froid maintenant », dit Ivan.
« Oui, dit grand-père. Quelle est la température? »
« Je ne sais pas, dit Ivan. Je n’ai pas de thermomètre. »
« Tu n’en as pas besoin », dit grand-père. Grand-père dit à Ivan d’écouter.
Ivan entend un son : cri-cri-cri. C’est un insecte. Le cri-cri-cri est le son des
grillons. Grand-père enseigne quelque chose à Ivan. Ivan compte les cris
pendant quatorze secondes. Grand-père ajoute 40 à ce nombre.  C’est la
température à l’extérieur. Ivan ne savait pas que les grillons étaient comme
des thermomètres.
Grand-mère sort de la maison. Elle sourit. Elle regarde Ivan compter les
cricris. « C’est l’heure des biscuits et du lait! » dit-elle.
« Oui! », dit Ivan.
« Oh, regardez! » dit grand-mère. « C’est un arc-en-ciel. » L’arc-en-ciel va
de la maison à la forêt. Il a plusieurs couleurs : rouge, orange, jaune, bleu et
vert. L’arc-en-ciel est magnifique. Grand-mère, grand-père et Ivan regardent
l’arc-en-ciel. Il disparaît et ils rentrent.
« Des biscuits et du lait pour tout le monde », dit grand-mère. Elle donne à
Ivan un biscuit au chocolat encore chaud.
« Pas pour moi, dit Grand-père. Je veux du thé. »
« Pourquoi du thé? » dit Grand-mère. Elle a deux verres de lait à la main.
« Avec ce temps, je ne me sens un peu malade », dit grand-père. Il rit. Ivan
et grand-mère rient avec lui.
Liste de Vocabulaire
winter hiver
to snow à la neige
weather temps
sunny ensoleillé
hot chaud
cold froid
cloudy nuageux
climate change changements climatiques
atmosphere atmosphère
predict prédire
sky ciel
storm tempête
weathermen Présentateur météo
drizzle bruine
rainy pluvieux
raining cats and dogs Il pleut des cordes
summer été
autumn automne
windy venteux
temperature température
thermometer thermomètre
rainbow arc-en-ciel
under the weather pas dans son assiette
QUESTIONS
1) À quoi ressemble habituellement la météo en février?
a) il fait chaud
b) il fait froid
c) il y a du soleil
d) il fait frais
2) Comment grand-père sait-il quel temps il fera?
a) il regarde la télévision
b) les conditions météorologiques
c) il observe la nature
d) il ne prédit pas le temps
3) Qu’est-ce que signifie « tomber des cordes »?
a) la pluie mouille les cordes
b) il pleut juste un peu
c) les chats et les chiens tombent du ciel
d) il pleut très fort
4) Qu’est-ce que cela signifie lorsque les araignées rentrent à l’intérieur?
a) elles ont faim
b) elles sont prêtes à pondre des œufs
c) le temps froid arrive
d) le temps chaud arrive
5) Pourquoi Grand-père demande-t-il du thé au lieu du lait?
a) il se sent un peu malade
b) il est allergique au lait
c) il veut une boisson chaude
d) pour mettre Grand-mère en colère
RÉPONSES
1) À quoi ressemble habituellement la météo en février?
a) il fait chaud
2) Comment grand-père sait-il quel temps il fera?
c) il observe la nature
3) Que signifie « tomber des cordes »?
d) il pleut très fort
4) Qu’est-ce que cela signifie lorsque les araignées rentrent à l’intérieur?
c) le temps froid arrive
5) Pourquoi grand-père demande-t-il du thé au lieu du lait?
a) il se sent un peu malade
Translation of the Story
Weird Weather
STORY
Ivan is twelve years old. He visits his grandparents on the weekend. He
loves to visit his grandparents. Grandma gives him cookies and milk every
day. Grandpa teaches him neat things. This weekend he goes to their house.
It is February. Where Ivan is, it is winter . In February, it usually snows .
Ivan loves the snow. He plays in it and rolls it into balls. This February
weekend, the weather is different. The sun is shining; it is sunny and
almost hot !  Ivan wears a T-shirt to his grandparent’s house.
“Hi, Grandpa! Hi, Grandma!” Ivan says.
“Hello, Ivan!” Grandma says.
“Ivan! How are you?” says Grandpa.
“I’m good,” he says, and he hugs his grandparents. Ivan says goodbye to his
mom. 
They go into the house. “This weather is strange,” says Grandma.
“February is always cold and cloudy . I don’t understand!”
“It is climate change ,” says Ivan. In school, Ivan learns about
contamination and pollution.  The weather changes because of changes in
the atmosphere . Climate change is the difference in the weather over time.
“I don’t know about climate change,” says Grandpa. “I predict the weather
by what I see.”
“What do you mean?” asks Ivan.
“This morning, the sky is red,” says Grandpa. “This means I know a storm
is coming.”
“How?” asks Ivan.
“Red sky in the morning, sailors take warning. Red sky at night, sailor’s
delight.” Grandpa tells Ivan about this saying.
If the sky is red at sunrise, it means there is water in the air. The light of the
sun shines red. The storm is coming towards you. If the sky is red at sunset,
the bad weather is leaving. Without weathermen , people watch the sky for
clues about the weather.
“How do weathermen predict the weather?” asks Ivan.
“They look at patterns in the atmosphere,” says Grandma. “They look at
temperature, if it is hot or cold. And they look at air pressure, what is
happening in the atmosphere.”
“I predict the weather differently,” says Grandpa. “For example, I know
today it will rain .”
“How?” asks Ivan.
“The cat,” says Grandpa. Ivan looks at the cat. The cat opens its mouth and
says ‘ah-CHOO’.
“When the cat sneezes or snores, that means rain is coming,” says Grandpa.
It may drizzle or it may be very rainy , but it will rain.”
Suddenly, they hear a loud sound. Ivan looks out the window.  Drops of rain
are falling hard. The rain is loud. Ivan can’t hear what his Grandpa says.
“What?” says Ivan.
“It’s raining cats and dogs,” says Grandpa, smiling.
“Ha!” laughs Ivan.
“I know another way to tell the weather,” says Grandma.
Grandma watches the spiders to see when the weather will be cold. At the
end of summer , the weather changes. Autumn brings fresh, cool air.
Grandma knows that when spiders come inside, it means cold weather is
coming. The spiders make a house inside before winter. That is how
grandma knows when the winter weather comes.
The rain stops. Grandpa and Ivan go out. Grandpa and Grandma live in a
house in the forest.  The house has trees around it. It is a small house. Ivan
is cold in his T-shirt. The weather is not sunny. The air is moving. It is
windy .  The wind blows through Ivan’s hair.
“It is cold now,” says Ivan.
“Yes,” says Grandpa. “What is the temperature?”
“I don’t know,” says Ivan. “I don’t have a thermometer.”
“You don’t need one,” says Grandpa. Grandpa tells Ivan to listen. Ivan
hears a sound: cri-cri-cri. It is an insect. The cri-cri-cri is the sound of
crickets.  Grandpa teaches Ivan. Ivan counts the cri for fourteen seconds.
Grandpa adds 40 to that number.  That is the temperature outside.  Ivan did
not know crickets were like thermometers.
Grandma comes out of the house.  She smiles. She watches Ivan counting
the cri sound. “Time for cookies and milk!” she says.
“Yay!” says Ivan.
“Oh, look!” says Grandma.  “It’s a rainbow.” The rainbow goes from the
house to the forest. It has many colors: red, orange, yellow, blue and green.
The rainbow is beautiful. Grandma, Grandpa and Ivan watch the rainbow. It
disappears and they go inside.
“Cookies and milk for everyone,” says Grandma. She gives Ivan a warm
chocolate cookie.
“Not for me,” says Grandpa. “I want tea.”
“Why tea?” says Grandma. She has two milks in her hand.
“I’m feeling under the weather ,” says Grandpa. He laughs. Ivan and
Grandma laugh with him.
CONCLUSION
You did it!
You finished a whole book in a brand new language. That in and of itself is
quite the accomplishment, isn’t it?
Congratulate yourself on time well spent and a job well done. Now that
you’ve finished the book, you have familiarized yourself with over 500 new
vocabulary words, comprehended the heart of 3 short stories, and listened to
loads of dialogue unfold, all without going anywhere! 
Charlemagne said “To have another language is to possess a second soul.” 
After immersing yourself in this book, you are broadening your horizons
and opening a whole new path for yourself.  
Have you thought about how much you know now that you did not know
before? You’ve learned everything from how to greet and how to express
your emotions to basics like colors and place words. You can tell time and
ask question. All without opening a schoolbook. Instead, you’ve cruised
through fun, interesting stories and possibly listened to them as well.
Perhaps before you weren’t able to distinguish meaning when you listened
to French. If you used the audiobook, we bet you can now pick out
meanings and words when you hear someone speaking. Regardless, we are
sure you have taken an important step to being more fluent.  You are well
on your way!
Best of all, you have made the essential step of distinguishing in your mind
the idea that most often hinders people studying a new language.  By
approaching French through our short stories and dialogs, instead of formal
lessons with just grammar and vocabulary, you are no longer in the
‘learning’ mindset. Your approach is much more similar to an osmosis,
focused on speaking and using the language, which is the end goal, after all!
So, what’s next?
This is just the first of five books, all packed full of short stories and
dialogs, covering essential, everyday French that will ensure you master the
basics. You can find the rest of the books in the series, as well as a whole
host of other resources, at LearnLikeNatives.com . Simply add the book to
your library to take the next step in your language learning journey. If you
are ever in need of new ideas or direction, refer to our ‘Speak Like a
Native’ eBook, available to you for free at LearnLikeNatives.com , which
clearly outlines practical steps you can take to continue learning any
language you choose. 
We also encourage you to get out into the real world and practice your
French. You have a leg up on most beginners, after all—instead of pure
textbook learning, you have been absorbing the sound and soul of the
language. Do not underestimate the foundation you have built reviewing the
chapters of this book. Remember, no one feels 100% confident when they
speak with a native speaker in another language.
One of the coolest things about being human is connecting with others.
Communicating with someone in their own language is a wonderful gift.
Knowing the language turns you into a local and opens up your world. You
will see the reward of learning languages for many years to come, so keep
that practice up!. Don’t let your fears stop you from taking the chance to
use your French. Just give it a try, and remember that you will make
mistakes. However, these mistakes will teach you so much, so view every
single one as a small victory! Learning is growth.
Don’t let the quest for learning end here! There is so much you can do to
continue the learning process in an organic way, like you did with this book.
Add another book from Learn Like a Native to your library. Listen to
French talk radio. Watch some of the great French films. Put on the latest
CD from Edith Piaf. Take cooking lessons in French. Whatever you do,
don’t stop because every little step you take counts towards learning a new
language, culture, and way of communicating.